---
title: Quality Rules and Profiles
---

This plugin integrates 70 quality checks from
[Scalastyle](https://scalastyle.beautiful-scala.com) and 118 from
[Scapegoat](https://github.com/sksamuel/scapegoat). 39 of the Scalastyle rules
are defined without parameters, and the remaining 31 are rule templates, which
allow you to set up custom rules by specifying the parameters yourself. Most of
those are already activated for you with default values recommended by
Scalastyle. Scapegoat rules don't contain any templates.

sonar-scala creates two rules repositories and four built-in quality profiles:
`Scalastyle`, `Scapegoat` and a combination of those two `Scalastyle+Scapegoat`
and `Recommended by sonar-scala`. The rules in the quality profiles are almost
all activated, except for those which are broken in the upstream projects and
had to be blacklisted.

To make changes to any of the rules, you can clone the quality profile of your
choice and then you should be able to activate or deactivate rules, change rule
severity and create more custom rules from the existing templates.
Alternatively, you can create your quality profile and activate rules from any
of the repositories using SonarQube rule filtering and bulk-change features
available on the Rules page.

For more information about Scalastyle and Scapegoat rules, please consult the
upstream documentation:

- Scalastyle - https://scalastyle.beautiful-scala.com
- Scapegoat - https://github.com/sksamuel/scapegoat

You can also browse the rules created by sonar-scala in the Rules section on
this website, see [here](../rules/scalastyle.mdx) for Scalastyle and
[here](../rules/scapegoat.mdx) for Scapegoat.
